docs - adapted abadger's changelog announcement email into dev process (#48172)
ansible/ansible: docs/docsite/rst/community/development_process.rst

Ansible accepts code via **pull requests** ("PRs" for short). GitHub provides a great overview of `how the pull request process works <https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/>`_ in general.

Because Ansible receives many pull requests, we use an automated process to help us through the process of reviewing and merging pull requests. That process is managed by `Ansibullbot`_.

.. _development_changelogs:

Changelogs
----------

Please add a changelog fragment with any PR that is
:ref:`changelog-worthy <creating_new_changelog_fragments>`. New modules and
plugins do not require changelogs as our tooling will automatically add any new
module or plugin.

> Ansbile requires a changelog for any PRs to be merged that should appear in the

Reviewer: typo: Ansible

changelog have a changelog fragment.

> This includes all :ref:`changelog-worthy changes

Reviewer: Isn't this tautologous? (All changelog-worthy changes should have a changelog)

<creating_new_changelog_fragments>`. Minor bugfixes that are going to be
backported we would want changelog entries in the backport PR (if they didn't
already appear in the devel PR) as our changlog policy is for minor releases to
list a short summary of all changes.

.. _creating_new_changelog_fragments:

Creating New Fragments
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Create a new file with a unique and descriptive name in ``changelogs/fragments/`` that ends in ``.yaml`` such as ``user-40696-backup-shadow-file.yaml``

Reviewer: It would be good to come up with a naming convention of some kind here - there doesn't seem to be much consistency right now.

Reviewer 2: Would it make sense to include the PR# in the changelog fragment name, so people could easily trace where the changes were made?

Because Ansible receives many pull requests, we use an automated process to help us through the process of reviewing and merging pull requests. That process is managed by **Ansibullbot**.

> 

Reviewer 3: anchor?

Changelogs
----------

> Please add a changelog fragment with any PR that is

Reviewer 3: Bullet points for needs/does not need list could make this more readable

changelog-worthy (features, major bugfixes, backwards
incompatiblities, etc) except for new modules and plugins (Our tooling
will automatically add any new module or plugin)

> Ansbile developers in the community will require a changelog for any PRs to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ansible requires a changelog for any PRs to be
```

merged that should appear in the changelog have a changelog fragment.
This includes new features, major bugfixes, backward incompatibilities,
deprecations, and other things that users should know on update.

Minor bugfixes that are going to be backported we would want changelog
entries in the backport PR (if they didn't already appear in the devel
PR) as our changlog policy is for minor releases to list a short
summary of all changes.

How to

> ~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: I'd use "Creating a changelog entry" instead of "How to" (which could be anything) as the header. Also, make the heading match our standards - see https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues/35520.

A basic changelog fragment is a ``.yaml`` file placed in the
``changelogs/fragments/`` directory.  Each file contains a yaml dict with
keys like ``"bugfixes"`` or ``"major_changes"`` followed by a list of
changelog entries of bugfixes or features.  Each changelog entry is
rst embedded inside of the yaml file which means that certain
constructs would need to be escaped so they can be interpreted by rst
and not by yaml (or escaped for both yaml and rst if that's your

> desire).  Each PR should use a new fragment file rather than adding to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
desire).  Each PR MUST use a new fragment file rather than adding to
```

Reviewer: Is there a justification for this (I have suggested adding a new line to an existing fragment as they both applied to the same file). 

(One justification could be that our naming convention dictates the PR number being in the fragment name)

Reviewer 2: Heh, I should have read the whole PR before commenting . . .

Reviewer 2: @willthames I added a requirement for the fragment naming convention to refer to the PR number - we can debate whether that's always the right choice, but at least it's easy to understand and the documentation makes sense this way

an existing one.

Here's an example of a changelog fragment for a bugfix:

> bugfixes:

Reviewer 2: Can we set this section off a bit? Maybe as a code snippet?

> bugfixes:

Reviewer 3: Indent and has as code

Author: I don't follow

Reviewer 3: Could you please set the example as a code block?

 * copy module - The copy module was attempting to change the mode of files for
   remote_src=True even if mode was not set as a parameter.  This failed on
   filesystems which do not have permission bits
   (https://github.com/ansible/ansible/pull/40099)

>  * You can find more example changelog fragments in the changelog

Reviewer 2: This isn't a second item in a bulleted list of examples, where the copy module example was the first . . . but the formatting makes it look like one. Remove the * so it's just its own paragraph.

   directory for a previous release:
   https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/stable-2.6/changelogs/fragments

>  * You can also find documentation of the format including hints on

Reviewer 2: I'd make this be part of the paragraph above.

   embedding rst in the yaml in the reno documentation:
   https://docs.openstack.org/reno/latest/user/usage.html#editing-a-release-note

>  * The toplevel keys (bugfixes, major_changes, etc) are defined in the

Reviewer 2: Remove the * from this one too.

-  **needs_revision**: Waiting on the submitter to make changes.
-  **shipit**: Waiting for final review by the core team for potential merge.

Information labels

> """"""""""""""""""""

Reviewer 4: Match the underline length to the line above?

Reviewer 2: Good catch, thanks @jamescassell. Fixed.
